Process and Policy Pages for Submitting Data (#1627)
agrc/gis.utah.gov: about/policy/sgid/index.md

- Datasets should have a reasonable **update schedule** included in the metadata.
  - We may add datasets that result from a one-time project and won't be updated in the future, but this should be clearly stated in the metadata.

### SGID Index Qualifications
{: .text-left}

These criteria apply to all datasets added to the SGID Index and not anywhere else in the SGID (for example, download links hosted on an entity's own server).

- Datasets should be **publicly available** without requiring a login.
  - We may add references to datasets that are restricted due to safety or security concerns as a way to raise awareness that the datasets exist but are restricted.
- Dataset links should be **stable** and maintained for the forseeable future. We do not want to be constantly updating the Index due to dead links.

### Open Data Qualifications
{: .text-left}

- Datasets must be **publicly available** without an ArcGIS login.
- Datasets should have a **stable schema**. Clients might be using the services directly, and deleting or renaming fields can break pop-ups, definition queries, and other schema-dependent actions.
  - Adding new fields is generally ok.

> - All datasets from a single entity must be shared from the same **ArcGIS Online user** OR have a custom and consistent organization name specified in the ArcGIS Online item metadata as described in the "Source" note in the [Open Data sharing process]({% link sharing/process/index.md %}#open-data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All datasets from a single entity must be shared from the same **ArcGIS Online user** OR have a custom and consistent organization name specified in the ArcGIS Online item metadata as described in the "Source" note in the [Open Data sharing process]({% link sharing/process/index.md %}#open-data).
```
It looks like you need a closing parenthesis in here.

- The steward should give users a heads up at least two weeks prior to removal whenever possible.
  - AGRC should post removal and deprecation notices on the [@MapUtah](https://twitter.com/maputah) Twitter account.
- Stewards of ArcGIS Online services should perform a brownout by marking the data as `Deprecated` in the item's settings and including "deprecated" in the item's title. The service should be unshared publicly for two weeks before being deleted altogether.

### Reasons for Removal
{: .text-left}

Many items were added to the SGID before we adopted these policies and guidelines. We may evaluate them from time to time for removal.

While not comprehensive, the following list includes the most common reasons for removeing datasets:

- Datasets that cease to meet any of the qualifications above.
- A dataset's schema has substantially changed.
  - A new dataset with the new schema should be introduced instead of breaking the existing schema.
- The dataset is out-of-date.
- The dataset is no longer being updated by the steward.
- The steward has requested us to remove the dataset.
- A more authoritative source for the dataset exists elsewhere.

> - Links that have been abandoned and don't return a proper web page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A link has been abandoned and no longer returns a proper web page.
```
Possible change based on tense and voice of previous bullets

---
title: SGID Policies
author:
  display_name: AGRC Office
  email: agrc@utah.gov
tags:
  - policy
  - sgid
categories: []
date: 2020-01-14 17:00
---

The policies on this page govern the way we interact with data in the [SGID]({% link sgid/index.html %}). Many of these policies also apply to external data being submitted to the SGID.

- TOC list
{:toc}

A Brief Word on Language
{: style="
    margin-bottom: .3em;
    font-size: 1.4em;
    text-align: left;
    font-weight: 300;
    color: #323232;
    padding-top: .5em;
    margin: 0 0 1em;
    "}

We use the following terms intentionally on this page:

> - **Must**: This is as close to a hard and fast rule as we get (short of a legislative "thou shalt").

Reviewer 2: i go back and forth on the "short of a legislative "thou shalt"" footnote.   when i enter from a humor aspect, i like it, but when i enter from a serious aspect i'm a little scared. 

just my two cents

Author: In my head I was referencing our legislative mandates in state code, but that could be made more clear here. Maybe "This is as close to a hard and fast rule as we get (short of the legislative "thou shalt" rules in the legislation establishing AGRC)", with a link to https://gis.utah.gov/about/code/ ?

- The entity providing the dataset must be the **authoritative** or original source (for example, a dataset of geologic hazards as identified by the Utah Geological Survey must come from the UGS, not another organization).
- Datasets should have a reasonable **update schedule** included in the metadata.
  - We may add datasets that result from a one-time project and won't be updated in the future, but this should be clearly stated in the metadata.
- Datasets must not contain any information considered `private`, `protected`, or `controlled` under the Utah [Government Records Access and Management Act (GRAMA)](https://archives.utah.gov/opengovernment/) or any other personally identifiable information (PII).

### SGID Index Qualifications
{: .text-left}

These criteria apply to all datasets added to the SGID Index and not anywhere else in the SGID (for example, download links hosted on an entity's own server).

- Datasets should be **publicly available** without requiring a login.
  - We may add references to datasets that are restricted due to safety or security concerns as a way to raise awareness that the datasets exist but are restricted.

> - Dataset links should be **stable** and maintained for the forseeable future. We do not want to be constantly updating the Index due to dead links.

Reviewer 2: I feel like we could omit the last sentence ("We do not want to be constantly updating the Index due to dead links.") and still get our point across.  Or maybe lighten it and say something like "this allows us to serve a reliable index"... something like that.

### Open Data Qualifications
{: .text-left}

- Datasets must be **publicly available** without an ArcGIS login.
- Datasets should have a **stable schema**. Clients might be using the services directly, and deleting or renaming fields can break pop-ups, definition queries, and other schema-dependent actions.
  - Adding new fields is generally ok.

> - All datasets from a single entity must be shared from the same **ArcGIS Online user** OR have a custom and consistent organization name specified in the ArcGIS Online item metadata as described in the "Source" note in the [Open Data sharing process]({% link sharing/process/index.md %}#open-data).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- All datasets from a single entity should be shared from the same **ArcGIS Online user** OR have a custom and consistent organization name specified in the ArcGIS Online item metadata as described in the "Source" note in the [Open Data sharing process]({% link sharing/process/index.md %}#open-data).
```
do we want a hard restriction on this?

Author: I vote yes because it helps keep the Open Data sources list intact, which has a couple benefits. 

- It presents a more authoritative view to the end user (which sounds more authoritative, a dataset shared by `joe.bob` or `Utah Department of Foo`?) 
- It also allows us to create URLs that sort by source, like https://opendata.gis.utah.gov/search?source=utah%20geological%20survey. This could be used to create a page of agency icons similar to the current page of category icons.

- Datasets should enable the "Allow others to export data to different formats" option in their ArcGIS Online settings to enable end users to **download** the dataset as a file geodatabase.

We strongly encourage dataset owners to follow these ArcGIS Online-specific guidelines, even though Open Data does not use them directly:

- The items' **thumbnails** appear when a user searches for the dataset on ArcGIS Online or in ArcGIS Pro. A [branded thumbnail](https://www.esri.com/arcgis-blog/products/arcgis-online/data-management/put-your-best-thumbnail-forward/) tells users that this is an authoritative dataset. For example, we use thumbnails that include the category logo for all the SGID data we share in ArcGIS Online.
- Mark the item as **authoritative** in ArcGIS Online. This helps users decide which dataset to use when their search in ArcGIS Online returns several similar results.

### Open SGID Qualifications
{: .text-left}

- Datasets should be useful to **multiple agencies or organizations'** daily activities or decision-making. Datasets primarily used internally by a single agency aren't great candidates for the Open SGID.

> - The entity providing the dataset should not have the internal **capability** to publicly serve the data (such as through an existing ArcGIS Online organization).

Reviewer 2: i'm not sure about this line: 
"The entity providing the dataset should not have the internal capability to publicly serve the data"

because we bring data into the open sgid that other agencies are hosting on their own.

- Datasets should be a core and vital GIS layer for the state (for example, land ownership category boundaries).
- Datasets should have accurate metadata that meets our [minimum metadata standards]({% link about/policy/metadata/index.md %}).

---

## Dataset Deprecation and Removal

Datasets being removed from the SGID must follow these policies.

### General Removal Policies
{: .text-left}

- We reserve the right to remove any dataset at any time.
- Removals should be tracked in [Porter](https://github.com/agrc/porter).
- The steward should give users a heads up at least two weeks prior to removal whenever possible.
  - AGRC should post removal and deprecation notices on the [@MapUtah](https://twitter.com/maputah) Twitter account.
- Stewards of ArcGIS Online services should perform a brownout by marking the data as `Deprecated` in the item's settings and including "deprecated" in the item's title. The service should be unshared publicly for two weeks before being deleted altogether.

### Reasons for Removal
{: .text-left}

Many items were added to the SGID before we adopted these policies and guidelines. We may evaluate them from time to time for removal.

> While not comprehensive, the following list includes the most common reasons for removeing datasets:

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
While not comprehensive, the following list includes the most common reasons for removing datasets:
```

For all other categories, dates should only be used for tables that are no longer effective/active or are soon-to-be effective/active. This implies that the **most current and relevant** data contains **no date suffix**. Historical or future data should contain a date suffix to help identification at a glance.

The best way to learn about a dataset is to view the data page metadata.

### Internal Database Standards
{: .text-left}

The SGID uses the ESRI default Resolution and Tolerance:

- XY Resolution: 0.0001 Meter
- XY Tolerance: 0.001 Meter

Any coded-value domain codes must match their values (for example, `"Interstate Highway" - "Interstate Highway"` instead of `1 - "Interstate Highway"`).

### Editing Policies
{: .text-left}

No edits or updates should be made to the internal geodatabase from 7:00PM to 10:00AM MST to allow automated scripts to push dataset updates to ArcGIS Online and the Open SGID. AGRC should ensure that data is production-ready before the editing window ends.

> Whenever possible, internal geodatabase edits and updates should be done using auotmated tools that move data from a secondary workspace into the internal geodatabase to reduce the time of incomplete data in the internal geodatabase. (Is this neccessary now that we're the only ones hitting internal SGID?)

Reviewer 3: I don't think that this is a big deal anymore as long as the timeframe from the paragraph above is honored.
